Use this file to write your answer to Stage 2 of the firmware tasks.

Question 1:

Advantages:
Using CAN protocol significantly reduces wiring complexity, weight because of multiplexing, 
allowing for faster communication between ECUs while having low production costs. 

It has built-in error detection and handling mechanisms where nodes transmit flags when errors
are detected which prevents faulty devices from creating useless traffic. Such mechanisms for error detection include 
cyclic redundancy checks and acknowledgment checks. CAN protocol is very reliable and has high fault tolerance because of this
especially compared to protocols like USB or PCIe. 

It is very robust in that the bus lines are highly resistant to electrical disturbances which is crucial 
for safety critical systems such as a car. This coupled with its error detection mechanisms makes it more robust
compared to protocols such as USB or SPI, which can struggle in noisy environments. 

CAN protocol uses a technique called loseless bitwise arbitration where CAN frames are prioritised by ID which 
allows higher priority data to get immediate bus access without interrupting other frames. This allows for 
maximum utilisation of bandwidth since there won't be any collisions when transmitting messages. This reduces network
communication delays, allowing for an efficient system. 

It is highly flexible/modular because it uses a message-based communciation protocol where the nodes on the bus 
don't have any identifying information associated with them which allows for faster and more efficient integration of 
new ECUs. 


Disadvantages:
CAN bus has a limited data rate compared to other protocols such as PCIe/Ethernet, which may not be suitable for 
high-bandwidth applications, especially with large-scale data acquisition. However, CAN FD has improved data 
rates which mitigates this limitation to a moderate extent. 

CAN doesn't have any intrinsic security features and there is no encryption in standard CAN implementations 
and so programs must have their own security mechanisms to prevent any form of attacks. 


Reasons for using CAN protocol in Redback Racing's ES, powertrain, DAQ and AV departments:
- CAN's robustness and high fault tolerance makes it suitable for a race car where high reliability is crucial.

- Since it is a cost effective solution for communication between components of the vehicle, it will optimise costs 
  without compromising performance and reliability. 

- Allows departments to add, remove and modify components on the vehicle without requiring major changes to existing
  communication infrastructure. 

- CAN provides a deterministic communication approach, and so can be used for real-time monitoring of applications
  such as engine management and telemetry data acquisition which are crucial to monitor when racing. 

- Multiple devices can connect to the CAN bus without a centralised controller which allows for seamless integration of 
  components throughout the car, allowing for comprehensive data sharing and coordination. 


